# Account Domain Controls

## Overview

Account Domain Controls enable you to claim ownership of an email domain like
'example.com' and force all log-in and sign-up attempts from emails on that
domain to use your account. Domain Controls are a policy tool to enforce
all users at your organization to use a single ngrok account that you've set up
with appropriate security controls.

A Domain Control may only be created on an account that has a Single Sign-On
Identity Provider configured.

## Verification

Creating an Account Domain Control requires that you verify your ownership of
the domain.

When our Customer Success team creates your Account Domain Control, you'll be
asked to prove your ownership of the domain. There are different verification
methods, but the most common is to create a DNS TXT record on the domain you're
setting up.

## Behavior Changes

### Log in

When an Account Domain Control for `example.com` exists, anyone attempting to
log in with an `example.com` email address will be required to log in with the
Single Sign-On IdPs configured on your account. They will be presented with
links to those IdP on the log-in page.

### Account Sign-Up

When an Account Domain Control for `example.com` exists, signing up for a new
account with an email address on `example.com` can be disallowed. Users will be
redirected instead to log in with the SSO IdPs configured on your existing
account.

### Account Creation

When an Account Domain Control for `example.com` exists, any ngrok users with
`example.com` email addresses can be disallowed from creating new ngrok
accounts owned by their user.

### Email Address Changes

Users with an email address matching your Account Domain Control are no longer
allowed to change their email address to one that doesn't match your domain
control.

### Retroactive Account Consolidation

Creating an Account Domain Control does not retroactively consolidate existing
accounts created by users with matching email addresses. If you require account
consolidation as part of creating an Account Domain Control, please [contact
us](mailto:support@ngrok.com) for pricing.

## Pricing

[Contact us](mailto:support@ngrok.com) to enquire about pricing for Account
Domain Controls.
