# How does ngrok work?

## Overview

ngrok operates a global network of servers called the _ngrok edge_ where it
accepts traffic to your upstream services from clients on the internet. The
URLs that it receives traffic on are your _endpoints_. You configure _modules_
that ngrok will use to authenticate, transform and accelerate that traffic as
it is sent to your upstream service.

Unlike traditional reverse proxies, ngrok does not transmit traffic to your
upstream services by forwarding to IP addresses. Instead, you run a small piece
of software alongside your service that we call an _agent_ which connects to
ngrok's global service via secure, outbound persistent TLS connections. When
traffic is received on your endpoints at the ngrok edge, it is transmitted to
the agent via those TLS connections and finally from the agent to your upstream
service.

You can choose how to run the agent software in different form factors. It's
lightweight and easy to install.

1. **As a service:** Run a small side process called the [ngrok agent](/agent/)
   as a background OS service.
1. **As an interactive CLI:** Run the [ngrok agent](/agent/) interactively from
   the command line while developing and testing.
1. **As an SDK embedded in your app:** Include a small [Agent SDK](/agent-sdks) library
   directly into your application software that returns a socket-like object.
1. **As a Kubernetes Controller:** Run our [Ingress Controller](/k8s/) in a
   Kubernetes environment.

## ngrok vs. Traditional reverse proxies

ngrok doesn't forward to IP addresses like traditional reverse proxies and
instead sends connections to your upstream service via a lightweight piece of
agent software running alongside or in your application.

This unique architecture confers several important benefits over the
traditional model.

First, it means you can run your services _anywhere_â€”any cloud such as AWS or
Azure, any application platform like Heroku, an on-prem data center, a Raspberry
Pi in your home, or even on your laptop.

Second, it allows ngrok to provide ingress with zero networking configuration.
You don't need to work with arcane networking primitives like DNS, IPs,
Certificates or Ports. That configuration is pushed to ngrok's edge and it is
all handled automatically for you.

Third, ngrok can protect you from attacks and enforce authentication without
the concern that someone could 'go around' ngrok by discovering your upstream
IP addresses.
